[DOCS-14692] Add Splunk HEC metrics destination doc (#37581)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/observability_pipelines/destinations/splunk_hec/metrics.md

---
title: Splunk HTTP Event Collector (HEC) Destination
description: Learn how to set up the Splunk HEC destination for metrics in Observability Pipelines.
disable_toc: false
code_lang: metrics
type: multi-code-lang
weight: 2
---

## Overview

Use Observability Pipelines' Splunk HTTP Event Collector (HEC) destination to send metrics to Splunk HEC.

## Setup

> Configure the Splunk HEC destination when you [set up a pipeline][1]. You can set up a pipeline in the [UI][3], using the [API][4], or with [Terraform][5]. The steps in this section are configured in the UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure the Splunk HEC destination when you [set up a pipeline][1], which can be done in the [UI][3], using the [API][4], or with [Terraform][5]. The following steps cover the UI setup.
```
trying to avoid the back to back 'set up a pipeline'

Author: Appreciate the rewording. I'll need to open a separate PR to make the change across multiple docs.

> **Notes**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Notes:**
```
My pref is to have the colon bolded too, but I'm not sure how strict we are about this. Defer to you!

Author: Thanks! I will keep it as is because that's what I've been using for all my docs. Also, Vale has it without the colon bolded.

> **Notes**:

Reviewer: In the Setup section, the opening block has a two-bullet **Notes**, immediately followed by a danger callout, then a shortcode note (`secrets_env_var_note`). Three different types of callouts stacked together before the steps creates visual noise. Two suggestions: (1) move the danger callout into the Secrets Management tab content, where it's most relevant; (2) move `{{% observability_pipelines/secrets_env_var_note %}}` to the **Secret defaults** section, just above the `{{< tabs >}}` block — it's a note about switching between Secrets Management and Environment Variables, so I think it belongs where users are making that choice, not before they've done anything with secrets.

Author: PM and I decided to move the danger callout out of the Secrets Management tab because it makes more sense up here, especially if the user doesn't use check the default values because they enter their own. Same with the `secrets_env_var_note`.

However, I think moving the two callouts to the beginning of the section make sense, so that it doesn't interrupt the flow as mentioned in another comment. I'm going to open a separate PR for these changes because the change needs to made across multiple docs.

> - The Splunk index you send your metrics to must be a metrics index. If you send them to an events index, you can't view the metrics in Splunk using any metrics type queries, such as `mcatalog` and `mstats`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The Splunk index you send your metrics to must be a metrics index. If you send your metrics to an events index, you can't view them in Splunk using any metrics type queries, such as `mcatalog` and `mstats`.
```

- If you don't attach your index to the Splunk authentication token you are using for Observability Pipelines, you must enter the name of the [index](#splunk-index) when you set up the destination.

<div class="alert alert-danger">For Secrets Management: Only enter the identifiers for the Splunk HEC token, endpoint, and if applicable, the TLS key pass. Do <b>not</b> enter the actual values.</div>

{{% observability_pipelines/secrets_env_var_note %}}

> After you select the Splunk HEC destination in the pipeline UI:

Reviewer: The two numbered steps (entering the token and endpoint identifiers) are the primary action in this section, but they're buried under a Notes block and two callouts. That awkwardness will be partially addressed if the two callouts are moved, but it still feels disjointed. My suggestion would be to move the steps immediately after the intro paragraph and moving the Notes block after that.

Author: Going to move the callouts to the beginning of the section because users should be aware of it before going through the steps. Opening a separate for this change because multiple docs need to be updated.

1. Enter the identifier for your token. If you leave it blank, the [default](#secret-defaults) is used.
1. Enter the identifier for your endpoint URL. If you leave it blank, the [default](#secret-defaults) is used.

> ### Optional settings

Reviewer: Consider adding a brief lead-in sentence here, for example: "Configure any of the following optional settings for your destination."

Author: Same here, need to open separate docs so I can keep basic structure of multiple docs aligned.

#### Default namespace

> Enter a default namespace to use as a prefix for metrics that don't already have one. The namespace is prepended to the metric name with a period (`.`), such as `service.cpu.usage` where `service` is the namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enter a default namespace to use as a prefix for metrics that don't already have a namespace. The namespace is prepended to the metric name with a period (`.`). For example, in `service.cpu.usage`, `service` is the namespace.
```

#### Compression

> If you want to compress your metrics with gzip, select **gzip** in the dropdown menu. The default compression is **None**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To compress your metrics with gzip, select **gzip** in the dropdown menu. The default compression is **None**.
```

#### Splunk index

> Enter the name of the Splunk metrics index to which you are sending metrics. See [template syntax][6] if you want to route metrics to different indexes based on specific fields in your metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enter the name of the Splunk metrics index to which you are sending metrics. See [template syntax][6] to route metrics to different indexes based on specific fields.
```

> **Note**: This **Index** field is only optional if you have an index attached to the Splunk authentication token you are using for Observability Pipelines. Otherwise, you must enter the name of the Splunk metrics index.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: The **Index** field is optional only if you have an index attached to the Splunk authentication token you are using for Observability Pipelines. Otherwise, you must enter the name of the Splunk metrics index.
```

#### Source

> Enter a source value to add the source field to your metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enter a value to populate the source field in your metrics.
```
Awk to have 'source' twice in a short sentence, but leave it in if you think it's an important descriptor!

Author: I think it's important to say that the `source` field is added to the metric, so going to tweak it a bit:

```suggestion
Enter a value to add the `source` field to your metrics.
```

#### Source type override

> Set the `sourcetype` to override Splunk's default value, which is `httpevent` for HEC data. See [template syntax][6] if you want to route metrics to different source types based on specific fields in your metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set the `sourcetype` to override Splunk's default value, which is `httpevent` for HEC data. See [template syntax][6] to route metrics to different source types based on specific fields.
```

#### Buffering

{{% observability_pipelines/destination_buffer %}}

#### Enable TLS

{{% observability_pipelines/tls_settings %}}

## Secret defaults

{{% observability_pipelines/set_secrets_intro %}}

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Secrets Management" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/splunk_hec_secrets %}}

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "Environment Variables" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/destination_env_vars/splunk_hec %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## How the destination works

### Event batching

> A batch of events is flushed when one of these parameters is met. See [event batching][2] for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A batch of events is flushed when one of the following parameters is met. See [event batching][2] for more information.
```
